Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. its a computer language that helps computer to run on it.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
What is IDE?
A.An IDE stands Integrated Development Environment is a software suite that consolidates the
basic tools developers need to write and test software. Typically, an IDE contains a code editor, a
compiler or interpreter and a debugger that the developer accesses through a single graphical user
 interface (GUI).
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.Eclipse, Intellij Idea, NetBeans, AndroidStudio, Enide Studio 2014, BlueJ, jEdit,
 jGRASP, JSource, JDeveloper, DrJava etc.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.Programmer use any text editor to create high level Java text file.This file is saved as a
 .java file on the disk.Then compile this text file using the Java compiler, which result
 in a .classfile being created on the disk. The .class file contains the bytecodes.
  The file is then loaded into memory by the class loader. The bytecode verifier confirms that
  the bytecodes are valid and not hostile. Finally, the JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and
  translates them into machine code
what is class?
A. Class is a blueprint from which individual objects are created
What is object?
A. : Object is an instance of the class and Object is the physical reality
What is the entry point of an application?
A.Main method is the entry point of an application.
Why main is static?
A.In order to call a method need to have a object of that method. As main method
 is gateway to the java application JVM need to enter into main method in order
 to execute. Static key word let JVM to call main method without  object.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. we can't make an object from Interface and abstract class, if we want to create an object it
must need to be created in concrete class.
what is Access Specifier?
A.Access specifiers for classes or interfaces in Java.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
it is an object oriented programming.
A.polymorphism:when a parent class reference is used to refer to a child class object
abstraction:Abstraction is a process of hiding the implementation details from the user.
inheritance:It is the mechanism in java by which one class is allow to inherit the features(fields and methods) of another class.
encapsulation:Encapsulation is the process of hiding information details and protecting data and behavior of an object from misuse by other objects.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.java.lang package is imported by default, no need to explicitly import it. Classes in the java.lang package do not need to be imported (the compiler acts like they are always imported).
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.Java application programming interface (API) is a list of all classes that are part of the Java development kit (JDK). It includes all Java packages, classes, and interfaces, along with their methods, fields, and constructors.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.A class can implement any number of interfaces but can extend only one class.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.This is different from method overloading. Method overloading happens with methods with the same name but different signature.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.We can apply java static keyword with variables, methods, blocks and nested class.
Ststic keyword is used to access the methods wihtout creating the object.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant.
What is final, finally and finalize?
final: it is an
What is a constructor ?
Constructor is used to initialized the object.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
yes, we can have multiplr constructors.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
we are using java version 8.
What is JAR stand for ?
A. Jar is an (Java ARchive) is a file format typically used to aggregate many java class files and associated metadata.
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.It is used to provide runtime environment.It is the implementation of JVM
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
A.The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.
How java manage it's memory?
A.it is saved automatically Generally, memory is divided into two big parts: the stack and the heap.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. The difference between String and StringBuffer/StringBuilder in java is that String object is immutable whereas StringBuffer/StringBuilder objects are mutable
What is Singleton class?
A. It is an private constructor. used for to restrict one single object.
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. The serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can persisted to a disk or through streams.
Deserialization is the reverse of serialization.
when to use transient variable in java?
Transient varibales is used to not to serilaized.
Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.The difference between these two loops is that, in while loops, test expression is checked at first but, in do...while loop code is executed at first then the condition is checked.
What is Enum?
A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants.
What is Iterator?
A. Its is an process when codes have to be read line by line.
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.Java String is immutable, String will Store the value in the form of object. ... The string "a" remains the same.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
Constructor is a block of code that initializes the newly created object.
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
A.JIT stands for Just In time compilation and JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine.
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.Java objects reside in an area called the heap. ... During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects. Note that the JVM uses more memory than just the heap.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. No! we cannot gurantee becouse its automatic.
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A:The main difference between heap and stack is that stack memory is used to store local variables and function call while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A:Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime.
what is multithreading in java?
A:Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum utilization of CPU.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
A:they are large bodies usually many classes of pre wrtten codes to which you add your own codes to solve a propblem in a specific domain.
What are the testing Framework available in java?
junit and testNG
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A:junit usees object parametarize
What are the dependencies for this project?
A:Dependencies are the relationships among tasks which determine the order in which activities need to be performed. There are four (4) types of dependency relationships which are: finish to start, start to start, finish to finish, and start to finish.
what is dependency injection in java?
A: dependency injection is a technique whereby one object (or static method) supplies the dependencies of another object.
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A:It is also called late binding because binding happens at run time. Method overloading is the best example of static binding. Method overriding is the best example of dynamic binding









